Okay, so now let's talk about encryption.
And we've seen encryption a little bit in this course,
but now let's try to formalize what it means.
So, there are two types of encryptions happening within AWS.
You have encryption at rest and encryption in transit.
So, data at rest means that the data
is stored or archive on a physical device.
So that could be a hard drive or like a hard disk.
It could be an RDS instance because it's a database.
It could be an S3 Glacier Deep Archive,
or any kind of S3 buckets, actually.
These kind of things, right?
It's at rest because it's not moving.
It's written somewhere.
So, for example, we can have encrypted data
at rest on an EFS network drive,
or we can have encrypted data at rest on Amazon S3,
but there's a second kind of encryption,
which is in transit.
In transit means that encryption while the data is being
moved from one place to another.
And so that means in motion.
And so, for example, it says whenever you transfer data
from your on-premises data centers to AWS
or when you move from between an EC2 instance
and a DymamoDB table, for example,
because it's writing data or retrieving data,
or, in this example, up there from EFS to Amazon S3.
So, in transit means that data,
the data is transferred on the network.
And so there are two kinds of encryption.
There's encryption at rest and encryption in transit.
They use different techniques, okay?
But ideally, because we want our data
to be encrypted and protected all the time,
we want to encrypt data in both states to protect it.
For this, we leverage something called encryption keys.
And I'm going to stop right there
because you don't need to know how the encryption
key works at the CCP level.
But just so you know, that using these encryption keys,
we can encrypt the data.
That means that someone who does not have access
to these encryption keys,
even if they had access to our data,
they could not decrypt it,
and they could not read it, and therefore it's protected.
So the encryption service at the center
of AWS is called KMS, Key Management Service.
So, anytime you hear encryption for a service,
it's most likely going to be KMS.
And so with KMS, we don't have access to the keys.
AWS will manage the keys for us,
and we just define who can access these keys.
So there is an opt-in for encryption.
So, for example, for your EBS volumes,
you can choose to encrypt them with KMS.
For S3 buckets, you also have the option
to do server-side encryption of objects.
For Redshift databases,
you can do the encryption of your database.
For RDS, the same thing.
For EFS, you can encrypt your files.
And there's also some services
that have encryption automatically happen no matter what.
For example, CloudTrail Logs, S3 Glacier,
and Storage Gateway.
The second service used
to perform encryption is called CloudHSM.
So, with KMS, it is AWS
who manages the software for encryption.
But with CloudHSM, AWS will just provision
to us the encryption hardware,
but we are managing the keys ourselves.
So, a dedicated hardware for us is called an HSM module,
so hardware security module,
and it looks like this.
And so with this aspect,
AWS will give us the hardware in their infrastructure,
but we manage our own encryption keys entirely, not AWS.
And to make sure that no one can to have our keys
by sneaking into the data center of AWS,
the HSM device is tamper resistant.
That means if someone tries to temper it, it will fail.
And there is FIPS 140-2 Level 3 compliance,
which is a security standard.
So, CloudHSM, how does that work?
Well, AWS will manage the hardware.
So they will manage the device I just showed you,
but we use the CloudHSM service
with the CloudHSM clients to manage the keys.
And obviously, the connection between our clients
and CloudHSM is encrypted
so that we can manage the keys securely.
Okay, so what type of KMS keys do we have?
We have the customer-managed key.
This is a key that is created, managed,
and used by the customer.
So, you.
And you can enable or disable a specific key.
You can also define a key rotation policy.
For example, you want a new key to be generated every year
while, of course, the old key is preserved.
You can also have the possibility to bring your own key.
Then you have the AWS-managed keys.
So, this time, it's created, managed,
and used on the customer's behalf by AWS.
So you're going to find it
whenever an AWS service has some encryption managed by AWS,
and the key name is aws/s3 or aws/ebs and so on.
So whenever you see aws/, it's an AWS-managed key.
Then we have AWS-owned keys.
So it's a collection of keys that a service owns
and manages to use in multiple accounts.
So AWS can use these keys
to protect some resources in your accounts,
but you actually don't have any power to view the keys.
And finally, you have the CloudHSM keys
or custom key store,
where the keys are generated
from your own CloudHSM hardware device,
and all the cryptographic operations
will be performed within the CloudHSM cluster.
So, that's it for encryption.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.